README.md, before:

# CLI text processing with GNU sed

Example based guide to mastering GNU sed.

<p align="center"><img src="./images/sed_ls.png" alt="CLI text processing with GNU sed ebook cover image" /></p>

The book also includes exercises to test your understanding, which are presented together as a single file in this repo — [Exercises.md](./exercises/Exercises.md)

For solutions to the exercises, see [Exercise_solutions.md](./exercises/Exercise_solutions.md).

You can also use [this interactive TUI app](https://github.com/learnbyexample/TUI-apps/blob/main/SedExercises) to practice some of the exercises from the book.

See [Version_changes.md](./Version_changes.md) to keep track of changes made to the book.

<br>

# E-book

* You can purchase the pdf/epub versions of the book using these links:
    * https://learnbyexample.gumroad.com/l/gnu_sed
    * https://leanpub.com/gnu_sed
* You can also get the book as part of these bundles:
    * **All books bundle** bundle from https://learnbyexample.gumroad.com/l/all-books
        * Includes all my programming books
    * **Magical one-liners** bundle from https://learnbyexample.gumroad.com/l/oneliners or https://leanpub.com/b/oneliners
    * **Awesome Regex** bundle from https://learnbyexample.gumroad.com/l/regex or https://leanpub.com/b/regex
* See https://learnbyexample.github.io/books/ for a list of other books

For a preview of the book, see [sample chapters](./sample_chapters/gnu_sed_sample.pdf).

The book can also be [viewed as a single markdown file in this repo](./gnu_sed.md). See my blogpost on [generating pdfs from markdown using pandoc](https://learnbyexample.github.io/tutorial/ebook-generation/customizing-pandoc/) if you are interested in the ebook creation process.

For the web version of the book, visit https://learnbyexample.github.io/learn_gnused/

<br>

# Testimonials

>Thank you for choosing to write and share your knowledge. I read your books on CLI and sed - I think they are very comprehensive and very well explained. Keep up the great work
>
> — [feedback on twitter](https://twitter.com/le_anh_phuong/status/1628149732760604672)

<br>

# Feedback and Contributing

⚠️ ⚠️ Please DO NOT submit pull requests. Main reason being any modification requires changes in multiple places.

I would highly appreciate if you'd let me know how you felt about this book. It could be anything from a simple thank you, pointing out a typo, mistakes in code snippets, which aspects of the book worked for you (or didn't!) and so on. Reader feedback is essential and especially so for self-published authors.

You can reach me via:

* Issue Manager: [https://github.com/learnbyexample/learn_gnused/issues](https://github.com/learnbyexample/learn_gnused/issues)
* E-mail: `echo 'bGVhcm5ieWV4YW1wbGUubmV0QGdtYWlsLmNvbQo=' | base64 --decode`
* Twitter: [https://twitter.com/learn_byexample](https://twitter.com/learn_byexample)

<br>

# Table of Contents

1) Preface
2) Introduction
3) In-place file editing
4) Selective editing
5) BRE/ERE Regular Expressions
6) Flags
7) Shell substitutions
8) z, s and f command line options
9) append, change, insert
10) Adding content from file
11) Control structures
12) Processing lines bounded by distinct markers
13) Gotchas and Tricks
14) Further Reading

<br>

# Acknowledgements

* [GNU sed documentation](https://www.gnu.org/software/sed/manual/sed.html) — manual and examples
* [stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/) and [unix.stackexchange](https://unix.stackexchange.com/) — for getting answers to pertinent questions on `sed` and related commands
* [tex.stackexchange](https://tex.stackexchange.com/) — for help on [pandoc](https://github.com/jgm/pandoc/) and `tex` related questions
* [/r/commandline/](https://old.reddit.com/r/commandline), [/r/linux4noobs/](https://old.reddit.com/r/linux4noobs/), [/r/linuxquestions/](https://old.reddit.com/r/linuxquestions/) and [/r/linux/](https://old.reddit.com/r/linux/) — helpful forums
* [canva](https://www.canva.com/) — cover image
* [oxipng](https://github.com/shssoichiro/oxipng), [pngquant](https://pngquant.org/) and [svgcleaner](https://github.com/RazrFalcon/svgcleaner) — optimizing images
* [Warning](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Warning_icon.svg) and [Info](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Info_icon_002.svg) icons by [Amada44](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/User:Amada44) under public domain
* [arifmahmudrana](https://github.com/arifmahmudrana) for spotting an ambiguous explanation
* [mdBook](https://github.com/rust-lang/mdBook) — for web version of the book
    * [mdBook-pagetoc](https://github.com/JorelAli/mdBook-pagetoc) — for adding table of contents for each chapter
    * [minify-html](https://github.com/wilsonzlin/minify-html) — for minifying html files

Special thanks to all my friends and online acquaintances for their help, support and encouragement, especially during difficult times.

<br>

# License

The book is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/).

The code snippets are licensed under MIT, see [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file.

Commit message:

added link to video promo

README.md, after:

# CLI text processing with GNU sed

Example based guide to mastering GNU sed. Visit https://youtu.be/nvKyKoeiZD8 for a short video about the book.

<p align="center"><img src="./images/sed_ls.png" alt="CLI text processing with GNU sed ebook cover image" /></p>

The book also includes exercises to test your understanding, which are presented together as a single file in this repo — [Exercises.md](./exercises/Exercises.md)

For solutions to the exercises, see [Exercise_solutions.md](./exercises/Exercise_solutions.md).

You can also use [this interactive TUI app](https://github.com/learnbyexample/TUI-apps/blob/main/SedExercises) to practice some of the exercises from the book.

See [Version_changes.md](./Version_changes.md) to keep track of changes made to the book.

<br>

# E-book

* You can purchase the pdf/epub versions of the book using these links:
    * https://learnbyexample.gumroad.com/l/gnu_sed
    * https://leanpub.com/gnu_sed
* You can also get the book as part of these bundles:
    * **All books bundle** bundle from https://learnbyexample.gumroad.com/l/all-books
        * Includes all my programming books
    * **Magical one-liners** bundle from https://learnbyexample.gumroad.com/l/oneliners or https://leanpub.com/b/oneliners
    * **Awesome Regex** bundle from https://learnbyexample.gumroad.com/l/regex or https://leanpub.com/b/regex
* See https://learnbyexample.github.io/books/ for a list of other books

For a preview of the book, see [sample chapters](./sample_chapters/gnu_sed_sample.pdf).

The book can also be [viewed as a single markdown file in this repo](./gnu_sed.md). See my blogpost on [generating pdfs from markdown using pandoc](https://learnbyexample.github.io/customizing-pandoc/) if you are interested in the ebook creation process.

For the web version of the book, visit https://learnbyexample.github.io/learn_gnused/

<br>

# Testimonials

>Thank you for choosing to write and share your knowledge. I read your books on CLI and sed - I think they are very comprehensive and very well explained. Keep up the great work
>
> — [feedback on twitter](https://twitter.com/le_anh_phuong/status/1628149732760604672)

<br>

# Feedback and Contributing

⚠️ ⚠️ Please DO NOT submit pull requests. Main reason being any modification requires changes in multiple places.

I would highly appreciate if you'd let me know how you felt about this book. It could be anything from a simple thank you, pointing out a typo, mistakes in code snippets, which aspects of the book worked for you (or didn't!) and so on. Reader feedback is essential and especially so for self-published authors.

You can reach me via:

* Issue Manager: [https://github.com/learnbyexample/learn_gnused/issues](https://github.com/learnbyexample/learn_gnused/issues)
* E-mail: `echo 'bGVhcm5ieWV4YW1wbGUubmV0QGdtYWlsLmNvbQo=' | base64 --decode`
* Twitter: [https://twitter.com/learn_byexample](https://twitter.com/learn_byexample)

<br>

# Table of Contents

1) Preface
2) Introduction
3) In-place file editing
4) Selective editing
5) BRE/ERE Regular Expressions
6) Flags
7) Shell substitutions
8) z, s and f command line options
9) append, change, insert
10) Adding content from file
11) Control structures
12) Processing lines bounded by distinct markers
13) Gotchas and Tricks
14) Further Reading

<br>

# Acknowledgements

* [GNU sed documentation](https://www.gnu.org/software/sed/manual/sed.html) — manual and examples
* [stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/) and [unix.stackexchange](https://unix.stackexchange.com/) — for getting answers to pertinent questions on `sed` and related commands
* [tex.stackexchange](https://tex.stackexchange.com/) — for help on [pandoc](https://github.com/jgm/pandoc/) and `tex` related questions
* [/r/commandline/](https://old.reddit.com/r/commandline), [/r/linux4noobs/](https://old.reddit.com/r/linux4noobs/), [/r/linuxquestions/](https://old.reddit.com/r/linuxquestions/) and [/r/linux/](https://old.reddit.com/r/linux/) — helpful forums
* [canva](https://www.canva.com/) — cover image
* [oxipng](https://github.com/shssoichiro/oxipng), [pngquant](https://pngquant.org/) and [svgcleaner](https://github.com/RazrFalcon/svgcleaner) — optimizing images
* [Warning](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Warning_icon.svg) and [Info](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Info_icon_002.svg) icons by [Amada44](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/User:Amada44) under public domain
* [arifmahmudrana](https://github.com/arifmahmudrana) for spotting an ambiguous explanation
* [mdBook](https://github.com/rust-lang/mdBook) — for web version of the book
    * [mdBook-pagetoc](https://github.com/JorelAli/mdBook-pagetoc) — for adding table of contents for each chapter
    * [minify-html](https://github.com/wilsonzlin/minify-html) — for minifying html files

Special thanks to all my friends and online acquaintances for their help, support and encouragement, especially during difficult times.

<br>

# License

The book is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/).

The code snippets are licensed under MIT, see [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file.
